## 2023-07-22

Making better AI will require looking into "pathfinding" topics. Fortunately, friends from Twitter gave me some documentation to read:
* https://natureofcode.com/book/chapter-6-autonomous-agents/
* https://python-tcod.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tcod/path.html
* https://www.fatoldyeti.com/categories/roguelike-tutorial/

But I want to move toward a "working" game faster, I'll leave this for later.

The 2 next topics I have to address are the leveling up screen and the inventory screen. Leveling will probably much easier since I have pretty much everything already. 

Inventory requires creating new structs, new functions, a new screen with new features (drag and drop if that's possible with fyne?), adding more images on the game screen, ...

So, basically when a character levels up, I want to print a popup saying you leveled up (in addition to the log entry, already present) with a button allowing you to dismiss the notification + a button to go to a new screen.

Then, I need to create a new screen that looks very much like the newgame screen, with new points to allocate (2/levels) and sliders.

Since most variables related to the game (currentMap, NPCList) are stored local to the screen package, I should be able to move screens back and forth (we'll see).

So I copy/pasted the newgame.go file and renamed it levelup.go, removed everything that had to do with gender, aspect, ... I also removed the conditionals preventing to go to the next screen (game.go) if some points are not allocated.

On the slider, I removed the ability to go below the values already allocated (you can't reduce the strength below 14 if you already had 14 before leveling up). This required me to create a new createSliderLevelUpWithCallback function, which is derivative of createSliderWithCallback function in newgame.go.

```go
	slider.OnChanged = func(v float64) {
		intV := int(v)
		if (model.Player.PointsToSpend - (intV - *value)) >= 0 {
			// player still has enough point to spend to make this modification
			// however, this could mean that player wants to remove points allocated
			// to characteristics from previous levels, which we don't want

			// we only allow modification if new value is greater or equal than current value
			if intV >= currentValue {
				model.Player.PointsToSpend = model.Player.PointsToSpend - (intV - *value)
				*value = intV	
			}
		} else {
			slider.Value = float64(*value)
			slider.Refresh()
		}
```

Surprisingly enough, copy pasting and tweaking a bit worked at first try 🤣 though clearly there are some annoying bugs because when I get back to game screen, player and NPCs position has been reset on the map, but not in NPCList. 

This is quite obvious when you think about it. I must initialise map + positions only when creating a new game. I moved a few functions around, split initialisation in newgame.go and drawing stayed in game.go, and it's good.

Well, the screen itself is hideous, but works as expected. Seeing how this screen is empty, I wondered if I could change the levelup screen in a popup instead. I used dialog.ShowCustom before (in the newgame screen) and reading the documentation I found ShowCustomConfirm which allows confirmation + back button. Perfect!

