## 2023-08-05

To be able to "refresh" the dropdown menus in the inventory screen I have to store the dropdown widgets pointers somewhere. I had to change the code a bit to make this

```go
var (
	itemDropdowns []dropdown
)

type dropdown struct {
	category model.Category
	widget   *widget.Select
}

[...]
```

Then, in the ShowInventoryScreen(), I updated `itemDropdowns = append(itemDropdowns, itemDropdown)` with this new struct. Then, I simply have to create a function that add the item to the correct category widget

```go
func RefreshDropdownContent(categoryName string, newItem string) {
	for _, dropdown := range itemDropdowns {
		if dropdown.category.Name == categoryName {
			dropdown.widget.Options = append(dropdown.widget.Options, newItem)
			dropdown.widget.Refresh()
			return
		}
	}
}
```

I fixed a bug where always the last item from the object list was added to the inventory (even if it was not the right one). This was a complex list of mixup and misunderstanding of how go work 😅. Most important things are that I:
* change Inventory from `Inventory []Object` to `Inventory []*Object`. This allowed me to clean functions AddObjectToInventory() & RemoveObjectFromInventory() where he was struggling with indexes and loops where I can now update objects in place
* in displayFloorItems(), I made a copy of the item variable for use in the closure. I'm a bit fresh in the concept of closure but I understand I was dealing with the wrong pointer.

Now, player picks up the good objects and inventory automatically updates itself.

And I also fixed a regression I introduced when I added images to Objects, which were now (obviously) saved in the save files (like avatars, which logic I copied so I'm not surprised).

Last one's going to hurt. I'm going to rewrite a lot of code to change `NPCList model.NPCsOnCurrentMap` to `NPCList []*NPCStats` to match the work I did for Objects because dealing with pointers is SOOOOO much easier in this context. But this is going to break many things...