## 2023-07-19

After a good night's sleep, I found out that one of the issue from yesterday was that I was changing the generated farmer/wolf coordinates AFTER putting it in the NPCList. 

```go
	// set wolf on map and draw it
	wolf := model.Wolf
	wolf.Avatar.PosX, wolf.Avatar.PosY = 22, 22
	NPCList.List = append(NPCList.List, wolf)
	drawSubject(mapContainer, wolf.Avatar)
```

Collisions with NPCs are still a bit broken. This was a stupid mistake in newTurnForNPCs function. I'm looping over npc with 
```go
	for _, npc := range NPCList.List {
```

**But npc is not a reference**, it's a whole new NPCStats object! I fixed it like this:

```go
	for index, _ := range NPCList.List {
		npc := &NPCList.List[index]
```

Now, player can't collide with NPCs anymore. But for some reason, NPCs can. :-( So much for an "easy refactor". But since they don't collide in anything else, I figured it was probably just a bug in the dontCollideWithPlayer() I wrote yesterday night. 

In fact, during refactor, I forgot to remove player's PosX/PosY variable from CharacterStats, which is now unified between Player and NPCs in Avatar struct.

```diff
-		if npc.PosX == futurePosX && npc.PosY == futurePosY {
+		if npc.Avatar.PosX == futurePosX && npc.Avatar.PosY == futurePosY {
```

Last but not list, I had trouble understanding that in Go, when you assign a struct variable to another variable, you are creating a "shallow copy" of the struct. Meaning that modifying one would affect the other. This prevented me to instantiate a new wolf.

So I created 2 functions to copy NPCs types I declared in model package

```go
func CreateNPC(npc NPCStats, x, y int) NPCStats {
	avatar := createAvatar(npc.Avatar, x, y)
	return NPCStats{
		Name:      npc.Name,
		Pronoun:   npc.Pronoun,
		Avatar:    avatar,
		MaxHP:     npc.MaxHP,
		CurrentHP: npc.CurrentHP,
		MaxMP:     npc.MaxMP,
		CurrentMP: npc.CurrentMP,
	}
}

func createAvatar(avatar Avatar, x, y int) Avatar {
	return Avatar{
		CanvasImage: canvas.NewImageFromFile(avatar.CanvasPath),
		PosX:        x,
		PosY:        y,
	}
}
```

Which allows me to create as much wolves as I want

```go
	// set two wolve at the edge of the map and draw them
	wolf := model.CreateNPC(model.Wolf, 22, 22)
	NPCList.List = append(NPCList.List, wolf)
	drawSubject(mapContainer, wolf.Avatar)
	wolf2 := model.CreateNPC(model.Wolf, 24, 21)
	NPCList.List = append(NPCList.List, wolf2)
	drawSubject(mapContainer, wolf2.Avatar)
```

I then ask ChatGPT to generate me more mobs (mage, ogre). They seemed satisfying enough. I reworked a bit the NPC addition on the map (created a function addNPCs that I'll rework later).

Some of my NPCs are hostiles (wolf, ogre) and other aren't (mage, farmer). I added this in the structure. This is preliminary to the first combat implementation! I don't want my hero killing innocent farmers T_T.

I then reworked the whole mapKeyListener function, and more specifically the pat where I check if path is walkable or not to add the attack logic.

The idea now is to:
* checkOutOfBounds() to prevent player from escaping the map
* getNPCAtPosition() to check if there is an NPC on our path
	* if hostile, deal some damage
	* if not hostile, we are blocked like before
	* if there are no NPC, checkTileIsWalkable()
		* if tile is walkable, move
		* if not, we are blocked

When NPCs will be able to return hits, checkWalkable() which did all that will cease to be useful.

I then created a function that take a npc (*model.NPCStats struct) and a damageDealt int as arguments: 
* If (npc.CurrentHP - damageDealt) is <= 0, print that NPC is dead
* If (npc.CurrentHP - damageDealt) > 0% and <= 20% of npc.MaxHP, and that CurrentHP > 20%, print that NPC looks barely alive
* If (npc.CurrentHP - damageDealt) > 20% and <= 50% of npc.MaxHP, and that CurrentHP > 50%, print that NPC looks seriously injured
* If (npc.CurrentHP - damageDealt) > 50% and <= 80% of npc.MaxHP, and that CurrentHP > 80%, print that NPC looks injured
* If (npc.CurrentHP - damageDealt) > 80% and < 100% of npc.MaxHP, and that CurrentHP = 100%, print that NPC looks barely injured

This way I can give additional information in the log entries on NPC remaining health.

The last thing I need to do is to remove the NPC from NPCList.List once he/she/it is dead, and remove the CanvasImage.

```go
				// let's attack!
				addLogEntry(model.HandleNPCDamage(npc, model.Player.BaseDamage))
				npc.CurrentHP = npc.CurrentHP - model.Player.BaseDamage
				if npc.CurrentHP <= 0 {
					npc.Avatar.CanvasImage.Hidden = true
					removeNPCByIndex(npcId)
				}
```

I finally added more stats and modifications. Intelligence now change MPs, Strength and Dexterity improve base damage dealt on mobs.
