## 2023-07-26

Note to self: I've found out that Labels have a func(*Label) Bind which bind data to Label and label is updated everytime data is changed. This is super useful and I have some code cleaning to do! (But it's too late now). See [https://developer.fyne.io/api/v2.0/widget/label.html#func-label-bind](https://developer.fyne.io/api/v2.0/widget/label.html#func-label-bind)

Moving the code around, I realized it made no sense **not** to store the NPCList and the player's start coordinates in the map struct.

```go
type SpawnNPC []struct {
	npc  model.NPCStats
	x, y int
}

var Town = Map{
	Name:        "Town",
	PlayerStart: Coord{2, 4},
	spawnNPC: SpawnNPC{
		{model.Farmer, 10, 15},
		{model.Wolf, 25, 26},
		{model.Wolf, 28, 27},
		{model.Ogre, 30, 25},
	},
	[...]
}
```

Just for fun, I added a dialog line for friendly NPCs when you encounter them

```go
	// NPC is not hostile, we don't want to hurt them, but lost 2s
	if npc.Dialog != "" {
		dialogEntry := fmt.Sprintf("%s says: %s", npc.Name, npc.Dialog)
		addLogEntry(dialogEntry)
	} else {
		blockEntry := fmt.Sprintf("%s is blocking you", npc.Name)
		addLogEntry(blockEntry)
	}
```

I also changed TileInfo to allow multiple tilesets

```
type TileInfo struct {
	X, Y       int
	filePath   string
	IsWalkable bool
}
```

The one I chose in early game dev was a bit too restricted and I needed more diverse tiles (buildings, dungeons). I used a tileset used by many RPGmakers players designed by "MACK". Apparently, the only thing needed is to credit him/her. 

So thanks MACK.

This opened the way for a BIG revamp of my "Town" map (which is more of a village). Doing so, I realized that editing the map matrix (50x50) by hand is WAY too difficult. I have to generate it somehow.

I'm not ready for levels that are autogenerated so I created a very small project to help me on this as a PoC, and I changed a few tiles by hand after that. [The code can be found here (github.com/zwindler/gocastle_mapgen) and is really basic](https://github.com/zwindler/gocastle_mapgen).

I also reworked the whole newgame screen layout. First, emoji support is still missing and I don't want to wait on fyne 2.4 anymore. Also, I realized I can do all I want with images (probably better as well). So I move containers around and it looks SOOOO much nicer now.

I took advantage of NewBorder layouts for the last line with buttons. 

```go
	lastLine := container.NewBorder(nil, nil, backButton, validateButton, nil)
	[...]
	mainContent = container.NewBorder(nil, lastLine, nil, nil, content)
```
I also discovered how to use fyne Labels with Style

```go
	characterNameLabel := widget.NewLabelWithStyle("Character's name", 0, fyne.TextStyle{Bold: true, Italic: true})
```

Finally it took me quite long to find the courage to write it, but I started to make a new screen for **inventory**. My first idea was to create a simple form containing drop down lists for each item category and allow player to select one for each category. This is way less user friendly than "Castle of the winds" drag and drop inventory screen but it's a start.

I created the ShowInventoryScreen(window fyne.Window) function and called it when you press letter "i" in the game screen :

```go
	if event.Name == fyne.KeyI {
		// Open inventory screen
		ShowInventoryScreen(currentWindow)
	}
```

In the inventory screen, there is a "Back" button that allows player to go back and forth between screens.

```go
	// Create a "Back" button to return to the main menu
	backButton := widget.NewButton("Back", func() {
		ShowGameScreen(window)
	})
```

I already validated that this worked during my first implementation of the levelup screen (which was a separate screen and now a popup) so I was confident that this would work. And it did (somewhat).
