## 2023-07-17

Now that I have PoCed the map, the character and the PNJs, it's time to take a look back at the main UI.

There are at least 2 elements missing in my "map" screen (that I'm probably going to rename) if I look at Castle's UI. At the bottom of the screen, there is a scrollable text area containing messages of what happened, and another text area containing various players stats like health points, magic points, etc.

To create these area, I had to change (again again) a bit the layout and switch to a container without layout for the various elements.

I then created NewVBox inside a NewVScroll in the package vars. 

```go
	logsArea               = container.NewVBox()
	logsScrollableTextArea = container.NewVScroll(logsArea)
```

This way I can add "log entries" from every functions of the package. I tried with mapKeyListener:

```go
		logsEntry := canvas.NewText(model.FormatDuration(model.TimeSinceBegin)+": you are blocked!", color.White)
		logsEntry.TextSize = 12
		logsArea.Add(logsEntry)
		logsScrollableTextArea.ScrollToBottom()
```

I also added a function FormatDuration() to display time spent by our character. Every actions will have specific time "costs". Walking costs 3s for each tile. Sleeping will cost a few hours, etc.

The last thing I started working on is the stats Box, in the right down corner which will display hp, mp, time spent and location (using map name)

```go
	statsTextArea := container.New(layout.NewGridLayout(2),
		healthPointsLabel, healthPointsValueLabel,
		manaPointsLabel, manaPointsValueLabel,
		timeSpentLabel, timeSpentValueLabel,
		locationLabel, locationValueLabel,
	)
```

I discovered that the theme depends on system being in light/dark mode. This is an issue because if I use text in black color on black theme you will not be able to read it.

There may be a more elegant solution (I haven't found it yet) but I found you can access the ThemeVariant from app settings and documentation (https://developer.fyne.io/api/v2.0/theme/) told me that `VariantDark fyne.ThemeVariant = 0` and `VariantLight fyne.ThemeVariant = 1`.

So I fixed it like that:

```go
	if goCastle.Settings().ThemeVariant() == 0 {
		// dark theme
		model.TextColor = color.White
	} else {
		// light theme
		model.TextColor = color.Black
	}
```

I also (re)discovered that almost all my screens support resizing by re-reading https://developer.fyne.io/explore/layouts

The main menu can be fixed easily with a Center Layout. The game screen may be tougher though since I heavily used fixed positions. So I removed the `mainWindow.SetFixedSize(true)` and worked on it.

```go
	buttons := container.New(layout.NewVBoxLayout(),
		newGameButton,
		loadGameButton,
		quitButton,
	)
	menu := container.New(layout.NewCenterLayout(), buttons)

	window.SetContent(container.New(layout.NewMaxLayout(),
		backgroundImage,
		menu))
```

I also think I can do something with the Border Layout for the map screen because documentation says
> All items in the container that are not positioned on a border will fill the remaining space.

Meaning I could but the bottom boxes (logs and stats) in the bottom border and the map will fill the rest. bottom boxes could also be handled as a border layout.

```go
	bottom := container.NewBorder(nil, nil, nil, statsTextArea, logsScrollableTextArea)
	content := container.NewBorder(nil, bottom, nil, nil, scrollableMapContainer)
```

And it works!!
