## 2023-07-15

Digging a bit on padding I've found that you can't change it on default Layouts. By default, all Layouts have padding between elements and you can only change it globally which is not recommended.

However, you can create your own Layout which somehow could not inherit padding. I'm a bit at a loss here :-\( because no one really explain how to do this:

* https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne/issues/2719
* https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne/issues/1031
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60661694/padding-in-fyne-layout

I've tried the example given in documentation but it doesn't really help
* https://developer.fyne.io/extend/custom-layout

I have 3 workaround for this :
* try to remove padding globally (though I have yet to find how, its not documented either)
* use container.NewWithoutLayout like in main menu and set positions manually
* dig into custom layouts

Looking in source code (theme.go in fyne lib) I've found 

```golang
func (t *builtinTheme) Size(s fyne.ThemeSizeName) float32 {
	switch s {
[...]
	case SizeNameInnerPadding:
		return 8
	case SizeNamePadding:
		return 6
[...]
```

Then I realized why my UI is f* up since I created my own theme. I had overwritten the whole Size function which doesn't only change font size, but also borders and padding and so on 🤣 

Fixed it like this, UI looks a lot better :D

```go
func (t CustomTheme) Size(style fyne.ThemeSizeName) float32 {
	switch style {
	case theme.SizeNameInnerPadding:
		return 8
	case theme.SizeNamePadding:
		return 6
	case theme.SizeNameText:
		return 17
	default:
		return theme.DefaultTheme().Size(style)
	}
}
```

This doesn't fix my map issue though... So I tried setting SizeNameInnerPadding and SizeNamePadding to 0, but now UI looks horrible (obviously) AND I still have issues displaying the map (for some reason the tiles are very small, they don't take the whole 32px).

The reason was that I hadn't set the image size in map.go (using `Resize()`)

```
			image := canvas.NewImageFromFile("./static/grass.png")
			image.FillMode = canvas.ImageFillOriginal
			image.Resize(fyne.NewSize(32, 32))
			mapContainer.Add(image)
```

Setting only `SizeNamePadding` to 0 but not changing `SizeNameInnerPadding` produces OK results on UI while at the same time making the map work. It's even better if I bump `SizeNameInnerPadding` a bit.

Hurray!

Well, not so fast ;-\)

After a lot trial and error, I realized that creating a 50x50 Grid filled with containers without layout was both slow and also didn't work. For some reason there still is some padding involved when I try to display the character above the grass tile.

So I finally switched to 2nd workaround (new container without layout). It came with its own challenges. Building the map is easy, you just have to move elements by steps of 32 pixels. But there seem to be an issue when calculating the size of the container (which seems to be 0), making it un-scrollable when inserted inside a scrollable container.

I worked around this for now by adding images of the length of the map. Crude but it works. I'll try to find a more elegant solution later.

Now, I have a working map with a character displayed on top of it.

Next step, movement and turns!!
