## 2023-07-31

Since a big milestone has been delivered yesterday (save/load game), today I started by fixing a few open issues in order to limit the "backlog".

[Following this documentation (cross-compiling)](https://developer.fyne.io/started/cross-compiling), I was able understand why I couldn't build ARM64, windows or darwin targets. For each GOOS/GOARCH, you need to use a specific compiler and other prerequisites (like macOS SDK). If I want to use goreleaser (like I was starting to do), I'll need to download a lot of things...

Hopefully, there is a way to create packaged files automagically by installing fyne-cross. I was also able to generate both a AMD64 and ARM64 binary for linux, which is cool since ARM64 was not working on my machine, and a windows .exe binary as well.

```console
go install github.com/fyne-io/fyne-cross@latest
~/go/bin/fyne-cross windows -app-id fr.zwindler.gocastle
~/go/bin/fyne-cross linux -arch=amd64,arm64 -app-id fr.zwindler.gocastle
```

For darwin, I get an error saying that you need a macOSX SDK path. That's a bit weird since fyne-cross should have everything it needs...

> The tool recommended by the Fyne developers is fyne-cross. It has been inspired by xgo and uses a docker image built on top of the golang-cross image, that includes the MinGW compiler for windows, and a macOS SDK, along with the Fyne requirements.

Taking a look at [fyne-cross](https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne-cross) github repository gave me the reason:

> cross-compile from NOT darwin (i.e. linux) to darwin: requires a copy of the macOS SDK on the host. The fyne-cross darwin-sdk-extractor command can be used to extract the SDK from the XCode CLI Tool file

But what surprised me even more is that fyne can also build Android APKs!

```console
~/go/bin/fyne-cross android -arch=arm64 -app-id fr.zwindler.gocastle
```

I hit a little issue as all my programs built this way where crashing when opening the game screen. This is maybe related to the fact that ALL images are missing from binary. I have to find how to include all static files INSIDE the game binary.

See
* [blog.jbriault.fr/integrer-des-fichiers-statiques-dans-go](https://blog.jbriault.fr/integrer-des-fichiers-statiques-dans-go/)
* [stackoverflow.com/questions/17796043/how-to-embed-files-into-go-binaries](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17796043/how-to-embed-files-into-go-binaries)
* [pkg.go.dev/embed@master](https://pkg.go.dev/embed@master)

So I create a new package called "utils/", in wich I move the whole static folder. I then created a new utils/embed.go file:

```go
package utils

import (
	"embed"
	"image"
	"image/png"
	"log"
)

//go:embed static/*
var EmbeddedImages embed.FS

func GetImageFromEmbed(path string) image.Image {
	// Read the embedded image file
	file, err := EmbeddedImages.Open(path)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal("Error opening embedded image:", err)
	}
	defer file.Close()

	// Decode the image using the png package
	img, err := png.Decode(file)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal("Error decoding embedded image:", err)
	}

	return img
}
```

I then had to replace all the calls opening images like this:

```diff
- backgroundImage := canvas.NewImageFromFile("static/castle_back.png")
+ backgroundImage := canvas.NewImageFromImage(utils.GetImageFromEmbed("static/castle_back.png"))
```

The modification app wide was relatively easy, it fits in this little commit 4cf7cd89a6e5f1cbb8e83eb2e1910f16e61c3ec7

Now, linux, windows EXE and android APK app (YES!) are working. You can't do anything with the android app though because screen isn't designed to fit the smartphone format and you'd need a keyboard. But this feels incredible...

I struggled with the fact that I'll have to drop goreleaser, which doesn't allow prebuilt binaries in the community version (pro feature). 

So either I use goreleaser and I have to configure all the compilers all by myself (if I manage to get this to work) or I use fyne-cross which already works but has to be automated in some way :grimacing:.

So I create a script I called fake-goreleaser-release.sh which builds for windows, linux (amd64+arm64), macos (amd64+arm64) and android.

For MacOS, I had to create a apple developper account to be able to download ["Command Line Tools for Xcode 14.3.1" dmg](https://developer.apple.com/download/all/?q=Command%20Line%20Tools)

Once this was done, I followed [fyne-cross](https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne-cross) documentation.

```console
fyne-cross darwin-sdk-extract --xcode-path /home/zwindler/sources/gocastle/bin/Command_Line_Tools_for_Xcode_14.3.1.dmg
[i] Checking for a newer version of the docker image: fyneio/fyne-cross-images:darwin-sdk-extractor
[✓] Image is up to date
[i] Extracting SDKs from "Command_Line_Tools_for_Xcode_14.3.1.dmg", please wait it could take a while...
4890813 blocks
821231 blocks
958238 blocks
1035535 blocks
2 blocks
[✓] SDKs extracted to: /home/zwindler/sources/gocastle/bin/SDKs
```

Unfortunately there seem to be a bug in fyne-cross with latest versions of the xcode tool. I tried multiple versions until I tried the minimum one according to fyne-cross (xcode 12.4)...

See [https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne-cross/issues/187](https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne-cross/issues/187)